# Book: Rich Dad, Poor Dad

Once I knew this guy in his late fifties, who once said: "I have two sons. Well,
I used to have three, but one of them went into real estate." This book is about
that third son I guess.

It's a good book, and rather vividly written. Although, you might want to read
just the first third of it. The part where he talks about the Rat Race and the
money flow. He puts things in a perspective quite nicely and it totally worth
reading.

The second third of the book is filled with pretty generic life advises. And
the last third of it is just some vanilla war stories. This guy pretty much
made his fortune by buying houses on foreclosures and then dodging taxes. Well,
there is that; if not me, then somebody else will do it, right?

The interesting thing is that this book made me wonder about how our society is
structured. On the grand scale of things he's right. There are government, rich,
middle-class and poor. And the last two are pretty much fucked.

But then, if you think of it, not everyone wants, or even should strive to be
rich in a way he puts it. There are plenty of people who are badly needed in the
society and who cannot do the whole asset thing. Police, medical staff, school
teachers, any sort of social workers to that matter.

If we commercialize this sector it will immediately put a huge number of people
in a disadvantageous position compared to those who can't afford good care.

I've seen this in action when Soviets government fell. You might think that the
older generation just don't get it when they say "it was better before", but they
kind of have a point. "Before" there was only one social structure and everyone
had equal rights and opportunities. Yes, it was rotten and abused and limited,
but it was equal. Once we commercialized the schools and pretty much all the
social sector it got fucked up really quickly.

So, on one side we have a rigid capitalism that is unsustainable pretty much
rooted in inequality. And on the other is socialism which is prone to corruption
and power abuse. Fun times to be alive!

But seriously, it's a good book. Just don't get too close to heart.
